docs/src/main/paradox/healthchecks.md, before:

# Health checks

Akka Management supports two kinds of health checks:

* Readiness checks: should the application receive external traffic, for example waiting for the following to complete
    * Joining a Cluster
    * Establishing a connection to a database or queuing system
* Liveness checks: should the application be left running 

Readiness checks can be used to decide if a load balancer should route traffic whereas liveness checks can be used in environments which can restart a hung process.

This matches [Kubernetes Health checks](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-liveness-readiness-probes/). 
See [Kubernetes Liveness and Readiness Probes: How to Avoid Shooting Yourself in the Foot](https://blog.colinbreck.com/kubernetes-liveness-and-readiness-probes-how-to-avoid-shooting-yourself-in-the-foot/) for a
good overview of how to use readiness and liveness probes.

Akka Management provides endpoints for readiness and liveness checks out of the box at `/ready` and `/alive` (paths can be configured, see below).
Configuration settings are used to add checks to back those endpoints. When called, each endpoint will only report to be healthy when
*all* the configured health checks (for the particular kind, readiness or liveness) are succeeding.

## Defining a Health Check

A health check must extend @scala[`Function0[Future[Boolean]]`]@java[`Supplier[CompletionStage[Boolean]]`] and have either a no argument constructor or a constructor
with a single argument of type `ActorSystem.` A general type is used rather than a specific interface so that modules such as `akka-cluster` can 
provide health checks without depending on Akka management.

Having access to the `ActorSystem` allows loading of any external resource via an Akka extension e.g. `Cluster` or a database connection. Health checks
return a @scala[`Future`]@java[`CompletionStage`] so that an asynchronous action can be taken.

Scala
: @@snip [ExampleHealthCheck.scala](/management/src/test/scala/doc/akka/management/ExampleHealthCheck.scala)  { #basic}

Java
: @@snip [ExampleHealthCheck.java](/management/src/test/java/jdoc/akka/management/BasicHealthCheck.java)  { #basic}


Typically the `ActorSystem` is used to get a hold of any state needed to execute the check e.g.

Scala
: @@snip [ExampleHealthCheck.scala](/management/src/test/scala/doc/akka/management/ExampleHealthCheck.scala)  { #cluster }

Java
: @@snip [ExampleHealthCheck.java](/management/src/test/java/jdoc/akka/management/ClusterCheck.java)  { #cluster }

Note that @ref:[Cluster Http Management](cluster-http-management.md) includes a health check for cluster membership that is configurable for which states are considered healthy.

Any of the above health checks can be configured as either readiness checks or liveness checks. 

## Configuring health checks

Health checks are picked up from configuration. Modules are expected to provide health checks e.g. @ref:[Cluster Http Management](cluster-http-management.md) provides a cluster readiness check.

Application specific health checks can be added a `name = <fully qualified class name>` to `akka.management.health-checks.readiness-checks` or `akka.management.health-checks.liveness-checks` e.g.

@@snip [reference.conf](/management-cluster-http/src/main/resources/reference.conf)  { #health }

## Hosting health checks as an Akka Management Route

Health checks can be hosted via the Akka management HTTP server. The `akka.management.HealthCheckRoutes` is enabled
by default as an Akka management route provider.

By default all readiness checks are hosted on `/ready` and liveness checks are hosted on `/alive`. If all of the checks
for an endpoint succeed a `200` is returned, if any fail or return `false` a `500` is returned. The paths are
configurable via `akka.management.health-checks.readiness-path` and `akka.management.health-checks.liveness-path` e.g.

@@snip [application.conf](/integration-test/local/src/main/resources/application.conf)  { #health }

The `akka.management.HealthCheckRoutes` can be disabled with the following configuration but that also
means that the configured `readiness-checks` and `liveness-checks` will not be used.

```
akka.management.http.routes {
  health-checks = ""
}
```

Commit message:

switch to pekko jars
fix some imports

fix more imports

more imports

more imports

more import problems

more compile issues

import and doc issues

revert some incorrect changes

prop names

try to fix compile

Update ClusterHttpManagementHelperSpec.scala

try to fix tests

more compile issues

update test config

Update ClusterBootstrapBasePathIntegrationSpec.scala

Update kubernetes-test.sh

docs/src/main/paradox/healthchecks.md, after:

# Health checks

Pekko Management supports two kinds of health checks:

* Readiness checks: should the application receive external traffic, for example waiting for the following to complete
    * Joining a Cluster
    * Establishing a connection to a database or queuing system
* Liveness checks: should the application be left running 

Readiness checks can be used to decide if a load balancer should route traffic whereas liveness checks can be used in environments which can restart a hung process.

This matches [Kubernetes Health checks](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-liveness-readiness-probes/). 
See [Kubernetes Liveness and Readiness Probes: How to Avoid Shooting Yourself in the Foot](https://blog.colinbreck.com/kubernetes-liveness-and-readiness-probes-how-to-avoid-shooting-yourself-in-the-foot/) for a
good overview of how to use readiness and liveness probes.

Pekko Management provides endpoints for readiness and liveness checks out of the box at `/ready` and `/alive` (paths can be configured, see below).
Configuration settings are used to add checks to back those endpoints. When called, each endpoint will only report to be healthy when
*all* the configured health checks (for the particular kind, readiness or liveness) are succeeding.

## Defining a Health Check

A health check must extend @scala[`Function0[Future[Boolean]]`]@java[`Supplier[CompletionStage[Boolean]]`] and have either a no argument constructor or a constructor
with a single argument of type `ActorSystem.` A general type is used rather than a specific interface so that modules such as `pekko-cluster` can 
provide health checks without depending on Pekko management.

Having access to the `ActorSystem` allows loading of any external resource via an Akka extension e.g. `Cluster` or a database connection. Health checks
return a @scala[`Future`]@java[`CompletionStage`] so that an asynchronous action can be taken.

Scala
: @@snip [ExampleHealthCheck.scala](/management/src/test/scala/doc/org/apache/pekko/management/ExampleHealthCheck.scala)  { #basic}

Java
: @@snip [ExampleHealthCheck.java](/management/src/test/java/jdoc/org/apache/pekko/management/BasicHealthCheck.java)  { #basic}


Typically the `ActorSystem` is used to get a hold of any state needed to execute the check e.g.

Scala
: @@snip [ExampleHealthCheck.scala](/management/src/test/scala/doc/org/apache/pekko/management/ExampleHealthCheck.scala)  { #cluster }

Java
: @@snip [ExampleHealthCheck.java](/management/src/test/java/jdoc/org/apache/pekko/management/ClusterCheck.java)  { #cluster }

Note that @ref:[Cluster Http Management](cluster-http-management.md) includes a health check for cluster membership that is configurable for which states are considered healthy.

Any of the above health checks can be configured as either readiness checks or liveness checks. 

## Configuring health checks

Health checks are picked up from configuration. Modules are expected to provide health checks e.g. @ref:[Cluster Http Management](cluster-http-management.md) provides a cluster readiness check.

Application specific health checks can be added a `name = <fully qualified class name>` to `pekko.management.health-checks.readiness-checks` or `pekko.management.health-checks.liveness-checks` e.g.

@@snip [reference.conf](/management-cluster-http/src/main/resources/reference.conf)  { #health }

## Hosting health checks as an Pekko Management Route

Health checks can be hosted via the Pekko management HTTP server. The `pekko.management.HealthCheckRoutes` is enabled
by default as a Pekko management route provider.

By default all readiness checks are hosted on `/ready` and liveness checks are hosted on `/alive`. If all of the checks
for an endpoint succeed a `200` is returned, if any fail or return `false` a `500` is returned. The paths are
configurable via `pekko.management.health-checks.readiness-path` and `pekko.management.health-checks.liveness-path` e.g.

@@snip [application.conf](/integration-test/local/src/main/resources/application.conf)  { #health }

The `org.apache.pekko.management.HealthCheckRoutes` can be disabled with the following configuration but that also
means that the configured `readiness-checks` and `liveness-checks` will not be used.

```
pekko.management.http.routes {
  health-checks = ""
}
```
